# Repsoitory containing source code for Project1 - FYS3150

The code has been written and compiled on a laptop running g++ 9.3.0
Makefile is developed as to work on the laptop currently writing this readme

NOTE that results generated by these functions are stored in a
../results path. This path should exist before executing any of the scripts
Also, dont specify file extensions for programs where /path/to/file is a command
line argument.

## Contents
    error.cpp
    functions.cpp
    functions.hpp
    lib.cpp
    lib.h
    lu_compare.cpp
    plotter.py
    runtime.cpp
    write_file.cpp
    tests/test_functions.cpp
    tests/print_FillTridagonalMatrix.cpp
    tests/print_solvers.cpp

## Compilation
    Supplied with the repository is a Makefile. It has eight options
    all               - compiles all programs to .out files
    write             - compiles to program write_to_file.out
    topng             - runs write_to_file.out several times to create a figure
    create_png        - executes write then topng
    error             - compiles to relative_error.out
    table_gen_spec    - compiles to gen_spec_table.out
    lu_decomposition  - compiles to lu.out
    test              - compiles and executes the test program
    clean             - removes all .out files

## Execution

### write_to_file.out
Program that takes a /path/to/file as well as an integer
specifying the exponent of which the grid size shall be
a power of ten of. This program writes a .txt file
which contain three columns: step, numerical solution,
analytical solution. The purpose of this file is primarily
for visualization purposes.
Usage:
./write_to_file.out /path/to/file int(1)

### plotter.py
NOT FOR GENERAL USAGE
"Private" function intended only for use in the
Makefile topng command.

### relative_error.out
Program that computes the relative error between the
numerical and the closed form solution. Generates the
result in the file ../results/error.csv
Usage:
./relative_error.out

### gen_spec_table.out
Takes a /path/to/file, a non-inclusive range cap for
the increment of grid size and
the loop parameter that specfifies how many times the
general and specialized algorithm shall be run to
compute the mean runtime. Stores the result as a
.csv file.
Usage:
./gen_spec_table /path/to/file int(7) int(100)

### lu.out
Compares the developed algorithms in the functions header
to the LU decomposition method from the Library supplied
by the course, residing in the lib header. Stores the
results to the file ../results/lu_results.csv
Usage:
./lu.out

## Testing
In the scripts folder, there is a directory tests. There
resides a test file, which is supposed to be run using
the Makefile command test from the scripts directory.
Moreover, some programs in the tests folder have a
print_ prefix. These can be compiles and
run to print output to the terminal given some fixed cases.
Compilation example print_*.cpp:
g++ -o example.out print_*.cpp ../functions.hpp

## Uncertainty regarding the inclusion of the lib.*
As stated in the assignment text,
*Do not include library files which are available at the coursehomepage, unless you have made specific changes to them*
Since some of these files wont compile without their
residence in the GitHub repository, they are included.
Note that they have not been changed, and are thus not
included in the list of developed code in the project pdf.
